Welcome back everyone.
Now before we start converting our crown clothing application over to using hooks there is just one
quick thing I want to mention.
And this actually has to do with the rules of writing these hooks.
Now as you remember from our use affect example in the last lesson we did set a default search query
to Bret if for example however we had a default search where it was an empty string and we didn't want
to make or fire off our use of fact hook because search query did not exist yet or at the very least
it was not anything meaningful then perhaps we can think about a case where we only want a fire are
a fact where we actually perform the search based on some conditional depending on the length of the
search query string.
Now you might imagine that if for example we say search query length is greater than zero then we actually
want to use our effect if you were to write the code like this however this is actually incorrect.
You will actually see that this error gets thrown in our linear will tell us that we cannot call use
effect inside of a conditional they must be called at the top level of our component meaning that are
actual hooks including both our set state and our use effect hook must be called at the very top of
this component but also if we want to leverage a conditional we should actually put it inside of the
effect.
So for example what we can do with our use effect hook is add the conditional here where we actually
say if search query length is greater than zero then we actually fire off the hook in itself.
So this is the only case where if we ever have conditionals based on some prop or some state inside
of our component where we want to conditionally fire the effect we just have to make sure that we only
do it inside of the hook.
Now we actually don't have an example like this inside of our application but this is a good thing to
keep in mind when writing hooks.
So if you want to conditionally use a hook make sure you do it inside of the hooks definition and not
wrapping the actual hook itself inside of a conditional.
It's just a quick rule and you can actually see it in this link that I'll provide and your resources
about hook rules but this is pretty much the main rule about how to conditionally call your use a fact
hook.
So with that in mind let's move on with our course.